Team submissions from first assignment&mdash;component descriptions

# Adalogger

The adalogger is able to read data and sensors that are put into it. It also has a USB connected to it that can be plugged into a computer to move the data back and forth from the computer to the adalogger. It also has battery charging abilities and a place to hold an SD card to store information and read that information as well. The Senseair K-30 is the part that actually senses the CO2 gas and the adalogger will be able to evaluate the emissions it senses. The powerboost is what can keep the project running, even while charging up. At the center of the adalogger is a place for the microchip processor. The arduino software is used to write code for the sensor and upload it.

Adaloggers are pieces of equipment that read and log data. They are capable of being taken out in the field because you can get a battery for them, but if possible, you can also use a USB cord to power the adalogger. When the K-30 senses any CO2, the adalogger reads, evaluates, and stores the information. The adalogger holds a SD card that stores any information on a sensor alongside the processor. The powerboost keeps everything going even when it is being charged. Finally, the arduino software writes code that then gets uploaded after receiving the information from the other parts.

The Adalogger is a piece of hardware that acts as a data reader. Essentially, it’s a sensor board for field studies that, at its core, can save data and then export it to other equipment/technologies via USB. The board itself has multiple pins, in which sensors can be attached to, that produce voltage changes- and can then be read as data through the analog(read) command. The Senseair K-30 is what actually senses the CO2. The Adalogger also has internal and external power source capabilities; which makes it favorable for field work.

# Arduino
Arduino is used to write and upload programs to Arduino compatible boards, with the help of third-party cores and other vendor development boards. Arduino boards read inputs like a light on switch and turn it into an output (like activating a motor). You can tell your board what to do by sending a set of instructions to the microcontroller on the board. The Arduino Integrated Development Environment (IDE) is the main text editing program used for Arduino programming. It is where you type up your code before uploading it to the board you want to program. The IDE translates and compiles your input into code that Arduino can understand. Once your Arduino code is compiled it then uploads it to the board’s memory. If there are any errors in the Arduino code a warning message will flag up prompting the user to make changes.  If you make any mistakes in your punctuation when using Arduino, the code won’t compile, and you’ll be met with an error message. The Arduino software will work with the other components to perform a function, in this case we will be telling it how we want it to behave to measure CO2. The Arduino microcontroller will be powered by our power supply, in this case the Adafruit PowerBoost 500 + Charger. After we write the program on the computer and connect the computer to the microcontroller and all the code is correct, we connect the microcontroller to our sensor. As an example you can look at using an Arduino to control a LED light. You can achieve this by connecting a dial to the ports and an led to another. With the proper coding, you can use the knob you connect to the Arduino to control the brightness of the LED. It does so by interpreting the voltage into an Analog value and then using this to determine how bright the LED needs to be. The concept stays the same when we connect the Arduino to the sensor.  This is the way that we tell our sensor how we want it to act and how we want it to measure. It is necessary because without this language and the microcontroller, we would not be able to communicate with the sensor and it would not take the CO2 measurements.

# K30

The K-30 is the “swiss army knife” of carbon dioxide sensors. The unit itself is fairly small, only taking up less than one square centimeter! In other words, it can sit on your fingernail with room to spare. It has a great life expectancy of more than fifteen years and is even maintenance-free. The K-30 is so “flexible,” as it can operate in a wide range of temperatures from zero to fifty degrees Celsius. The K30 uses a non-dispersive infrared sensor which separates out the different wavelengths of light into a more narrow spectrum applicable to CO2 sensing. Using this narrow spectrum, it can detect the amount of CO2 in the atmosphere, from as little as 0 ppm to as high as 5,000 ppm. Readings could be as accurate as +/- 3% or +/- 30ppm. Which when compared the range is not that significant. The system has a pretty fast response time of twenty seconds, so it can give you CO2 results quickly. Upgrade kits can also be applied to the unit to expand its capabilities and function. Take, for example, the Sensair Development Kit (SADK), which, when applied to the unit, allows for meter measurements and control of meter functions. How does it interact with the other parts? The powerboost is a portable charger that powers the whole unit. The processor logs all of the data onto a chip that can be later be retrieved from the micro SD card in the Adalogger. The Arduino software allows you to write the code to control the whole unit.

# PowerBoost

What it does?

Assuming we are looking at the exact Powerboost 500C, this is what it does. It takes voltage from a 3.7V DC, direct current, battery and converts it to a 5.2V unit. This being just slightly higher than a USB wall converter at 5.0V. It is capable of being plugged into a constant power source or being run off just the battery without the possibility of loosing power to whatever it is powering.

How does it work?

It works by taking whatever input is available, whether it is the battery or a direct cable source and running it through its interior circuit. The interior circuit can take most any voltage and current and stabilizing it to the required output. Since this hardware can increase a sources output, it is considered a step-up power converter.

How does it interact with the other parts?

The Powerboost is what allows the CO2 sensor to move easily to different locations. Instead of the sensor having to be plugged into a wall, the powerboost allows the device to be supplied by a battery or other source so that it can be used outside for example. The powerboost converts the power of a battery to a usable form and then supplies the rest of the sensor. Specifically, the powerboost can work to power the K30 Senseair and the Adadfruit Feather M0 Adalogger. The K30 Senseair is a device used to measure CO2 concentrations and require 4.5 V to work. Since the Powerboost has an output of 5.2 V, it should be able to supply the sensor. The Adadfruit Feather M0 Adalogger allows the data taken by the K30 Senseair to be converted from the sensor and stored onto a flash drive. As the Adalogger has its own batteries, the powerboost can charge it when it runs low on power.

In Simple Terms.

In simple terms the PowerBoost 500C is perfect for our CO2 sensor because we can recharge the battery while still running the project. Like mentioned above, it takes voltage from either the battery or direct cable source (if its plugged in), boosts it, hence the name, and supplies power to the rest of the sensor. We can easily bring it anywhere we please and will work nicely with other integral parts of the sensor. It has a higher output than the K30 Senseair, which is good, and can charge the Adalogger when its running low on power.

# Processor

A processor is small and square-shaped with tiny metal connectors under it, and it is the central processing unit of an electronic device/computer. Its main function is to process data and make reasonable conclusions based on the information transmitted. Processors coordinate and decipher the different programmed instructions and then executes them in order. It has a memory unit (it stores the programmed instructions), an instruction retriever (it withdraws the instructions from the memory), an instruction decoder (it transforms the instructions from the memory to commands), execution units (they execute the commands), and registers (they store the commands/instructions that is currently being processed).

Due to the nature of the processor, it links the other components of the CO2 sensor as the “brain” that handles computing all the data. It is seated on the Adalogger, which physically holds the components together. Its processing power allows the PowerBoost to manage how it distributes power throughout each of the components. Arduino is utilized within the processor as a basic operating system, and as an interface for programming the functions of the rest of the components. The K-30 Senseair most likely utilizes the majority of the processor’s computational power; it is controlled by the Arduino programming hosted on the processor and allows the CO2 sensor to do its job. 

In a CO2 sensor the processor is the most important piece as it would essentially be unable to function without it. As mentioned previously, the processor is the “brain” of the sensor by processing all the information sent by the sensor and relaying that information throughout the system to their destination. Without this necessary delivery of accurate information from one piece to the other the sensor would be deemed useless. This processing power can be programmed for many different uses depending on the application.  
